BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_READY.md, before:

# Backend Deployment to Cloudflare Workers - Setup Complete

**Date:** February 9, 2026  
**Status:** ✅ Ready for Deployment

## What's Been Prepared

### ✅ Configuration Files
1. **wrangler-worker.toml** - Cloudflare Workers configuration
   - D1 Database binding: `cf374361-2caa-4597-a38d-5cecced7827d`
   - R2 Storage binding: `xflexwithai-videos`
   - Environment variables configured for production/staging/development

2. **package.json** - Updated deployment scripts
   - `npm run build:worker` - Build worker for Cloudflare
   - `npm run deploy:worker` - Deploy to production
   - `npm run deploy:worker:staging` - Deploy to staging

3. **backend/_core/worker.ts** - Worker fetch handler
   - Simple fetch handler compatible with Cloudflare Workers
   - Health check endpoint: `/health`
   - Database test endpoint: `/api/test/db`
   - Proper error handling

### ✅ Documentation
1. **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT.md** - Complete deployment guide with:
   - Step-by-step instructions
   - Cloudflare setup requirements
   - Secret management
   - DNS configuration
   - Testing procedures
   - Troubleshooting

2. **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md** - Quick reference with:
   - Pre-deployment checklist
   - Environment variables needed
   - Infrastructure summary
   - Verification steps

### ✅ Built & Ready
- Worker code compiled to: `dist/worker.js` (95.4 KB)
- All imports configured correctly
- No build errors

## Current Infrastructure Stack

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Frontend (Cloudflare Pages) - LIVE ✅                  │
│ https://xflexwithai.com                                 │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     │ HTTPS Requests
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Backend API (Cloudflare Workers) - READY TO DEPLOY 🚀  │
│ https://api.xflexwithai.com (pending DNS)               │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ • Health Check: /health                                  │
│ • DB Test: /api/test/db                                 │
│ • Full API: Coming after full integration                │
└────┬─────────────────┬──────────────────┬───────────────┘
     │                 │                  │
     ▼                 ▼                  ▼
┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐
│ D1 Database  │ │ R2 Storage   │ │ KV Cache     │
│ SQLite       │ │ Videos       │ │ (Optional)   │
│ (Ready) ✅  │ │ (Ready) ✅  │ │ (Later) ⏳  │
└──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘
```

## What You Need to Do to Deploy

### Phase 1: Set Environment Secrets (Required)
These are the minimum secrets needed for the API to function:

```bash
# 1. Generate and set JWT secret (for authentication)
wrangler secret put JWT_SECRET --env production
# Paste a strong random value (e.g., from: node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('base64'))")

# 2. Set OAuth credentials (get from Manus team)
wrangler secret put OAUTH_SERVER_URL --env production
wrangler secret put VITE_OAUTH_PORTAL_URL --env production
wrangler secret put VITE_APP_ID --env production
wrangler secret put OWNER_OPEN_ID --env production
wrangler secret put OWNER_NAME --env production
```

### Phase 2: Deploy Worker
```bash
# Build the worker (already done)
npm run build:worker

# Deploy to Cloudflare Workers
npm run deploy:worker
```

Expected output:
```
✓ Deployed to https://xflexwithai-api-production.xflexwithai.workers.dev
```

### Phase 3: Configure DNS
In Cloudflare Dashboard > DNS Records:
- Type: CNAME
- Name: api
- Content: xflexwithai-api-production.xflexwithai.workers.dev
- Proxy: Proxied
- TTL: Auto

This makes your API available at: `https://api.xflexwithai.com`

### Phase 4: Test Deployment
```bash
# Test health endpoint
curl https://api.xflexwithai.com/health

# View live logs
wrangler tail --env production

# Test database connection
curl https://api.xflexwithai.com/api/test/db
```

### Phase 5: Update Frontend API URL
Update frontend configuration to use the new API:
- File: `frontend/src/lib/trpc.ts`
- Update API URL from localhost to: `https://api.xflexwithai.com`

## Environment Secrets Required

| Variable | Purpose | Required | Source |
|----------|---------|----------|--------|
| JWT_SECRET | Auth token signing | ✅ Yes | Generate locally |
| OAUTH_SERVER_URL | OAuth server | ✅ Yes | Manus team |
| VITE_OAUTH_PORTAL_URL | OAuth portal | ✅ Yes | Manus team |
| VITE_APP_ID | App identifier | ✅ Yes | Manus team |
| OWNER_OPEN_ID | Owner identity | ✅ Yes | Manus team |
| OWNER_NAME | Owner display name | ✅ Yes | Manus team |
| BUILT_IN_FORGE_API_URL | Forge API endpoint | ⏳ Optional | If using Forge |
| BUILT_IN_FORGE_API_KEY | Forge API key | ⏳ Optional | If using Forge |

## Verified Working

✅ **Frontend:** Live at https://xflexwithai.com  
✅ **Database:** D1 migrations applied, schema ready  
✅ **Storage:** R2 bucket configured  
✅ **Worker Build:** Compiles to 95.4 KB without errors  
✅ **Configuration:** wrangler.toml properly configured  
✅ **Scripts:** npm commands ready for build/deploy  
✅ **Git:** All changes committed  

## Next Steps Summary

1. **Gather OAuth credentials** from Manus team (OAUTH_SERVER_URL, VITE_OAUTH_PORTAL_URL, VITE_APP_ID, OWNER_OPEN_ID, OWNER_NAME)
2. **Set secrets** using `wrangler secret put` commands
3. **Deploy** with `npm run deploy:worker`
4. **Add DNS CNAME** record for `api` subdomain
5. **Test** endpoints at `https://api.xflexwithai.com/health`
6. **Update frontend** API URL to point to new backend
7. **Monitor logs** with `wrangler tail --env production`

## Key Information

- **Account:** islam.thwabeh@hotmail.com ✅
- **Domain:** xflexwithai.com ✅
- **Frontend:** Cloudflare Pages ✅
- **Backend:** Cloudflare Workers (ready) 🚀
- **Database:** D1 (cf374361-2caa-4597-a38d-5cecced7827d) ✅
- **Storage:** R2 (xflexwithai-videos) ✅
- **Worker Build:** dist/worker.js (95.4 KB) ✅

## Resources

- See **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT.md** for detailed step-by-step guide
- See **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md** for quick reference checklist
- See **wrangler-worker.toml** for infrastructure configuration

---

**Status:** Backend ready for production deployment 🚀  
**Timeline:** Deployment can happen as soon as OAuth credentials are available

Commit message:

refactor: remove Manus OAuth integration, simplify to Cloudflare-only deployment

BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_READY.md, after:

# Backend Deployment to Cloudflare Workers - Setup Complete

**Date:** February 9, 2026  
**Status:** ✅ Ready for Deployment

## What's Been Prepared

### ✅ Configuration Files
1. **wrangler-worker.toml** - Cloudflare Workers configuration
   - D1 Database binding: `cf374361-2caa-4597-a38d-5cecced7827d`
   - R2 Storage binding: `xflexwithai-videos`
   - Environment variables configured for production/staging/development

2. **package.json** - Updated deployment scripts
   - `npm run build:worker` - Build worker for Cloudflare
   - `npm run deploy:worker` - Deploy to production
   - `npm run deploy:worker:staging` - Deploy to staging

3. **backend/_core/worker.ts** - Worker fetch handler
   - Simple fetch handler compatible with Cloudflare Workers
   - Health check endpoint: `/health`
   - Database test endpoint: `/api/test/db`
   - Proper error handling

### ✅ Documentation
1. **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT.md** - Complete deployment guide with:
   - Step-by-step instructions
   - Cloudflare setup requirements
   - Secret management
   - DNS configuration
   - Testing procedures
   - Troubleshooting

2. **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md** - Quick reference with:
   - Pre-deployment checklist
   - Environment variables needed
   - Infrastructure summary
   - Verification steps

### ✅ Built & Ready
- Worker code compiled to: `dist/worker.js` (95.4 KB)
- All imports configured correctly
- No build errors

## Current Infrastructure Stack

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Frontend (Cloudflare Pages) - LIVE ✅                  │
│ https://xflexwithai.com                                 │
└────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────┘
                     │
                     │ HTTPS Requests
                     ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ Backend API (Cloudflare Workers) - READY TO DEPLOY 🚀  │
│ https://api.xflexwithai.com (pending DNS)               │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ • Health Check: /health                                  │
│ • DB Test: /api/test/db                                 │
│ • Full API: Coming after full integration                │
└────┬─────────────────┬──────────────────┬───────────────┘
     │                 │                  │
     ▼                 ▼                  ▼
┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐
│ D1 Database  │ │ R2 Storage   │ │ KV Cache     │
│ SQLite       │ │ Videos       │ │ (Optional)   │
│ (Ready) ✅  │ │ (Ready) ✅  │ │ (Later) ⏳  │
└──────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └──────────────┘
```

## What You Need to Do to Deploy

### Phase 1: Set Environment Secrets (Required)
Only one secret is required for the API to function:

```bash
# Set JWT secret (for authentication)
wrangler secret put JWT_SECRET --env production
# Paste a strong random value (e.g., from: node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('base64'))")
```

### Phase 2: Deploy Worker
```bash
# Build the worker (already done)
npm run build:worker

# Deploy to Cloudflare Workers
npm run deploy:worker
```

Expected output:
```
✓ Deployed to https://xflexwithai-api-production.xflexwithai.workers.dev
```

### Phase 3: Configure DNS
In Cloudflare Dashboard > DNS Records:
- Type: CNAME
- Name: api
- Content: xflexwithai-api-production.xflexwithai.workers.dev
- Proxy: Proxied
- TTL: Auto

This makes your API available at: `https://api.xflexwithai.com`

### Phase 4: Test Deployment
```bash
# Test health endpoint
curl https://api.xflexwithai.com/health

# View live logs
wrangler tail --env production

# Test database connection
curl https://api.xflexwithai.com/api/test/db
```

### Phase 5: Update Frontend API URL
Update frontend configuration to use the new API:
- File: `frontend/src/lib/trpc.ts`
- Update API URL from localhost to: `https://api.xflexwithai.com`

## Environment Secrets Required

| Variable | Purpose | Required | Source |
|----------|---------|----------|--------|
| JWT_SECRET | Auth token signing | ✅ Yes | Generate locally |

## Verified Working

✅ **Frontend:** Live at https://xflexwithai.com  
✅ **Database:** D1 migrations applied, schema ready  
✅ **Storage:** R2 bucket configured  
✅ **Worker Build:** Compiles to 95.4 KB without errors  
✅ **Configuration:** wrangler.toml properly configured  
✅ **Scripts:** npm commands ready for build/deploy  
✅ **Git:** All changes committed  

## Next Steps Summary

1. **Generate JWT_SECRET** with: `node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('base64'))"`
2. **Set secret** with: `wrangler secret put JWT_SECRET --env production`
3. **Deploy** with: `npm run deploy:worker`
4. **Add DNS CNAME** record for `api` subdomain
5. **Test** endpoints at `https://api.xflexwithai.com/health`
6. **Update frontend** API URL to point to new backend
7. **Monitor logs** with `wrangler tail --env production`

## Key Information

- **Account:** islam.thwabeh@hotmail.com ✅
- **Domain:** xflexwithai.com ✅
- **Frontend:** Cloudflare Pages ✅
- **Backend:** Cloudflare Workers (ready) 🚀
- **Database:** D1 (cf374361-2caa-4597-a38d-5cecced7827d) ✅
- **Storage:** R2 (xflexwithai-videos) ✅
- **Worker Build:** dist/worker.js (95.4 KB) ✅

## Resources

- See **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT.md** for detailed step-by-step guide
- See **BACKEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md** for quick reference checklist
- See **wrangler-worker.toml** for infrastructure configuration

---

**Status:** Backend ready for production deployment 🚀  
**Timeline:** Deployment ready immediately
